---
layout: post
title: Technically I'm microblogging now.
tags:
- rss
---

I am a _big_ fan of the open web and although I have enjoyed
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/agentdero) the platform has regressed in dramatic
form and function since I first adopted it. I remember Twitter actively
_avoided_ building a walled garden with fantastic APIs and RSS feeds open to
the public. Much of the popularity of the platform hinged upon the incredible
third party applications and integrations developers like me built in the first
five-ish years of its existence. Over time the site has strayed from open APIs
and standards, and while I still enjoy Twitter, I want some more flexibility
which is why you can now subscribe to my [microblog](/microblog.xml) with any
RSS-capable client.

[Microblogging](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microblogging) is basically RSS
with a slight change in conventions to support more TWitter-style postings,
with a somehow sillier name. When I was exploring the concept, I came across
numerous posts of folks trying out microblogging only to find that their feeds
had gone _very_ stale. They couldn't bridge the gap between their existing
community in sites like Twitter with their microblog set up. This excludes some
users I have seen on [micro.blog](https://micro.blog), but I'm not about to pay
$5/month for sometihng that primitive.

My set up is built around me existing blog (you're reading it!) with
[some](https://github.com/rtyler/brokenco.de/blob/4e1513b75cab88ed4f098a0f905c33c9860f9d39/_config.yml#L15-L18)
[tweaks](https://github.com/rtyler/brokenco.de/blob/4e1513b75cab88ed4f098a0f905c33c9860f9d39/_scripts/new-microblog)
to make it easier to author microblog entries. I then integrated
[twitter-together](https://github.com/gr2m/twitter-together/) to ensure that my
microblog posts are duplicated automatically into my Twitter account.  Not
everything I post to Twitter goes through my Microblog however, replies and
retweets don't make much sense to me outside of the context of Twitter. But
practically anything I would typically share via my desktop I can now broadcast
via both channels!


Subscribe to my [microblog](/microblog.xml), or don't, it's a free internet after all. :)
