---
layout: post
title: "Pulling trains along the central coast: AIDS/LifeCYcle Day Four"
tags:
- alc
- alc2022
- cycling
---

Most of my training and cycling has been solo, but today was **so much fun**
because it was all about _teamwork_. The day starts with a good steady climb
known as "the evil twins", includes a gorgeous and long descent to the coast,
and finishes outside the town of Santa Maria. For one reason or another I found
myself cycling in largely small groups of 2-4. Teamwork means coordination,
communication, and _speed_.

---
I also posted a [thread to
Twitter](https://mobile.twitter.com/agentdero/status/1534501199570825219)
for today with more pictures

---

The alarm peeped at 4:15 and I immediately started marching over to the
breakfast tent shivering like a little dog. By the time everything had been
taken down and made it to bike parking at 6:15ish I wasn't shivering, which is
a good sign, but also an indication that the day will be quite warm.

The route meandering through Paso Robles had me riding next to some fixed gear
cyclists, known for their siren call of "Fuck yeah rider!" Pulling up alongside
at a stop light I ask them if they were riding freewheeling hubs or true fixed
gears. Freewheeling hubs are effectively single speed which allow you to coast,
while truly fixed hubs means that the cyclists legs are pumping as long as the
wheels are spinning. The curly mustachioed man said "Freewheel? Never heard of
her!" Watching them descend a small roller was mesmerizing as their legs pumped
almost in unison like cylinders of an engine. As we approached the evil twins,
I gave them a "fuck yeah riders" for good measure, and commenced climbing.

It's not a race, it's a ride.

But I'll be damned if I don't get competitive on the climbs. En route to Rest
Stop One I started passing people on some of the rollers preceding the twins,
jumping out to the side "on your left!", standing out of the saddle, and really
pushing as much power into the pedals as I could. In Rest Stop One a fellow
cyclists told me that it was a lot of fun to try to keep up with me on those
climbs. I felt so flattered and we chatted for a bit, both being former members
of Team ALCaholics. We parted ways and I fell in with a woman I had ridden a
bit with the past couple days,

Despite her insistence of not being a strong cyclist, she very truly is, and
for whatever reason is not riding with clips. You'll see that more than you'd
think at ALC. Cyclists of all skill levels and all kinds of equipment load outs
are riding the route, raising money for a great cause. What you don't typically
see are such strong cyclists riding without clips, and this year I've ridden
with two _very_ strong riders, mashing pedals with their street shoes.

We chatted for a bit as we climbed and then I pushed onward from twin one to
twin two, where I ran into the Triathelete I had chased a couple of days prior.
He's probably 6 inches shorter than I am and can absolutely smoke me on the
route. We climbed together and chatted, passing people as we went up evil twin
two. As we went by the Googler I had met on Day Two, he called out "well don't
just have a full on conversation while I'm struggling here." The push continued
to the halfway point.

There's a pull-off on the side of the highway at roughly half the mileage
between San Francisco and Los Angeles. I was pushing hard so I could get heir
early, get my pictures, and start the long descent to the coast with as little
traffic as possible. We all arrived around the same time, got some great
pictures, and started down.

In 2019 this descent _terrified_ me. I had never lost so much elevation or
ridden at these speeds before. Most of my training had been indoors and I just
didn't have the exposure to massive climbs like I do now. I also had rim brakes
which I knew could heat up and would require lots of feathering. This time
around I am a *must* more confident rider and actually pedalled downhill most
of the way. At one point I approached a fellow who helped me out on day
one. "On your left!" I shouted at full volume, as we rounded a curve I saw his
head shake. I assumed he didn't want to move over because he felt unsafe or
saw some hazards up ahead. I gently braked, waited to until after the turn and
then came into the lane and sped past him, returning to the shoulder after I
was clear. We caught up later and I apologized if I came up onto him too fast
or made him feel unsafe.

He didn't even remember it and had no problem with my passing. "I must have hit
a fly or something." I shared with him how much that descent terrified me and
how important it was to be respectful of other cyclists boundaries, he smiled,
wished me a good ride and I departed Rest Stop Two with the Googler and
somebody from Twitter.

The Googler offered to "pull" for a while, which basically means push at the
front through the headwinds for the benefit of the others. After a couple miles
it was my turn, and so I pulled in front, set the pace at about 20-21mph and we
all rocketed along towards lunch. I was happy to pull and they were happy to
let me! I stayed up front pulling them through the rollers along the highway as
we cruised along the coast towards San Luis Obispo. The sights were stunning,
the central coast of California is _definitely_ worth a visit.

Parking at lunch, the Googler says "when you asked if I wanted to ride
together, I didn't think you meant that you would drag my ass all the way to
lunch!" No complaints were tendered however, I was happy to challenge myself,
and worked up an incredible appetite in the process.

I sat around in the shade at lunch so long that most everybody I knew had left,
my bike computer timed out the ride, and I had to ride out solo. The cycling
was still great and as I closed into city limits I caught a couple of folks at
a stoplight. A new group of bike friends, hooray!

After pulling all the way to lunch, I figured the karma of cycling was due for
me, and I happily accepted a free ride towards Rest Stop Three. My post-lunch
efforts are where I have been doing my low effort segments, which seems to work
out well so I may continue that in the future.

Closing in on Rest Stop Three the bike in front of me popped and psssssssssssh
went flat. They both stopped off and needed no help so I continued onward to
Rest Stop Three which ended up only being about a hundred yards ahead. As I was
wrapping up with my business I saw him walk up with his bike over his shoulder,
the sidewall of his tubeless tire had a tear in it, but the bike techs believed
that he'd still be able to ride with a tube in the tire.

I rolled out again solo. The segment from Three to Four includes a water stop,
which I skipped, and an unofficial cinnamon bun stop. Unfortunately I spent all
my fun money for the day supporting the fundraiser at lunch so I pressed on
towards Rest Stop Four.

My right knee started to nag. I could not figure out what sequence of events
would lead it to hurt, but it was intermittent so my pace took a hit as a
precaution.

Still, I cannot pass up a good riding group. When I came across a guy I met on
day two, who I knew was a strong wheel, I decided to hop on and not let him go.
I wanted to get to Rest Stop Four with as little energy as possible. We picked
up a first timer along the way who was also quite happy to have a group to raise
his spirits and pace.

Closing in on Rest Stop Four, pop! Psssssshhhhhhhh. Our strong wheel had a
flat. The two stayed back as I pushed on to Rest Stop Four which was perhaps a
mile ahead. When I arrived I just kind of sat in the shade stretching my knee
out, the stop was still being set up, and my knee was the first priority.
Somebody from Medical came over unprompted "you look like you could use a bag
of ice." "Yes, thank you!"

The first tire rolled into camp looking for a car to pick up the strong wheel,
his sidewall was shredded and he had two flat tires.

I am not good luck today.

With some much needed ice and rest, I departed Rest Stop Four with two older guys who kept making jokes about being
slow. I left them behind at some point and found myself alone. I think I made a
wrong turn again.

Damnit, I cannot believe I made a wrong turn again. I must get real stupid
after Rest Stop Four.

I backtracked and only lost a couple blocks. Eventually I caught up to the
older timers, shared a laugh at my missing a turn. They hollered at me but I
clearly didn't hear them. Oops.

Rolling into camp, the very nice Roadie who has been there every day at the
finish line called out "30!"

Despite all my goofing off, I am proud to have arrived 30th to camp.

It's not a race, it's a ride. But cycling is all about competing with myself
and am enjoying the challenges of each day of the ride.
