---
layout: post
title: "A fabulous forty: AIDS/LifeCYcle Day Five"
tags:
- alc
- alc2022
- cycling
---

Roughly 275 miles ridden in the past four days and it's time for a rest day of
only 43 miles. _Only_. The things cyclists say sometimes never cease to astound
me. Day Five on AIDS/LifeCycle also has the honor of beinj Red Dress Day, a day
which brings out make up, costumes, and of course dresses.

---
I also posted a [thread to
Twitter](https://mobile.twitter.com/agentdero/status/1534876321456611328)
for today with more pictures

---

If you are in the market for a good cycling dress, I advise the following
criteria:

* Breathable and airy, to enhance evaporation
* Close to the body, to reduce drag
* Short, to avoid messing with your pedal stroke or wheels

Following these criteria I ended up with a trashy little backless number with
criss-crossing straps which I am confident have left "X" tan lines down my
back.

Dresses are of course not compulsory, which adds to the fun of the day. In
addition to the cheerleaders, pirate wenches, and bombshells there are Waldos,
Lobsters, Marios, Ketchups, Santas, and so much more. For those who have lived
in San Francisco, it has a very Bay to Breakers vibe.

I departed camp late for two reasons: first the final destination didn't open
until 1pm, so there was no sense in leaving early. Secondly, wearing a tiny
dress is **cold**.

The last time I did a century I rode around 40 miles before my first rest stop.
While that was foolish, a comfortable pae and a hearty breakfast can take me
quite a long way. Today I needed to hit up two rest stops, a water stop, and
lunch. I _needed_ to stop because I knew I was going to have some time to kill.

Getting to Rest Stop One was through the streets of Santa Maria. Leaving later
meant a lot more cyclists on the roads ahead of me, and today is _not_ a fun
day to compete with traffic since we're all squeezed onto bike lanes during
rush hour traffic.

Despite it being a recovery day, I still popped out into the lane to crank it
past some slower cyclists. Everybody is entitled to their own pace and
rightfully so, but I get particularly anxious in traffic like that since the
risk of accidents goes up quite a bit. Generally speaking the safest place to
be is often in front of other cyslists, regardless of speed. Another cyclist
followed my initiative and ended up riding with me for a while, before I lost
him in the pack again.

"Ho, ho, ho!" proclaimed the Santa as we rolled into Rest Stop One. I parked
and went about my routine, albeit in slow motion so that I would eat up more
time.

The segment to Rest Stop Two takes us out into the country on nearly
shoulder-less country roads. I cannot imagine the thoughts of the folks driving
by seeing hundreds of fabulously dressed cyclists. As I passed two men working
on some utility cabinet, I noticed that one was holding his phone up. I should
have yelled or catcalled at him, but I'm really not good at thinking of those
things in the moment. Oh well.

Rest Stop Two is on the other side of a couple little rural climbs and tucked
in the field behind a small country school. There I ran into Sister Tutti, one
of the [Sisters of Perpetual
Indulgence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sisters_of_Perpetual_Indulgence) that
does the ride. I had helped her with a computer problem on Day One and we've
greeted each other every day since. She is an elementary school teacher and has
incredible energy. For Red Dress Day she was also in her garb, so I _had_ to
have a picture together. I also ran into the woman who I had cycled with
previously, and she shared more of her face glitter with me. It looks very
pretty highlighting my cheekbones, but after the next time I apply sunscreen it
turns into just my whole face glitter.

We climbed out together towards Lompoc and lunch. My right knee keeps
stiffening up. The quad muscle that comes over the inside has been tender since
yesterday, and while I'm sure the foam rolling I did helped, it's still slowing
me down. 

Like a big stupid dog chasing a rabbit around a track, I cannot seem to just
_chill_ and sit in. As I see more cyclists ahead that I can pass, I crank
onward. 

This segment is the one in 2019 where my frame broke. The memories are still so
vivid to me, the climb where I hear the snap, the straight away where I could
hear a clanging when I put power down, and the shoulder where I stopped with a
team mate to figure out what was making that noise before tackling the big
climb that lay ahead. Almost exactly at mile 25 of Day Five, I thought my ride
was going to be over.

I considered stopping for a picture, but the new miles of that climb was in
front of me, and I wanted to get to it!

We don't have a name for this climb, but we probably should. It's a long and
gradual slog up the hill towards what I would come to learn is _now_ called
[Vandenberg _Space_ Force Base](https://www.vandenberg.spaceforce.mil/).

Space. Force. Base.

I caught a red light right at the entrace and took a number of pictures. It is
just as funny in real life as it is in that documentary with Steve Carell. I
still cannot believe it's a real thing.

Anyways, I grab a wheel to follow to the water stop, and kill some more time.
Before leaving I was complimented again on the strappy dress, which I'm sure
made me blush under the glitter that was by now smeared across my face.

The dress also turned some heads as I passed by the federal prison on the
outskirts of Lompoc. _That_ I was not as thrilled by, but I could only chuckle
to myself as I entered the cross winds after the facilities. Bright yellow
helmet, smeared face glitter, backless red dress, and celeste colored bicycle,
I would turn my head and stare too.

The ride into lunch was quick thanks to a nice little tailwind to scoot us into
town where we took over some city park. Still quite early, I decided to have
two lunches while I nursed my knee in the grass. Basking in the sun, there just
wasn't much to do other than eat, tan, and socialize. Camp sits only a few
miles beyond lunch, and those would be very easy miles.


I don't know what number into camp I was today, but it also doesn't matter. We
were all getting into camp early. Over 2,000 cyclists have each put down over
275 miles this week, their legs acclimating to the demands on them, their minds
knowing what they're now capable of.

43 miles is a short day.
