---
layout: post
title: "Bustin': AIDS/LifeCycle Day Three"
tags:
- alc
- alc2022
- cycling
---


Riding from King City to Paso Robles is short, 63 miles, but challenging for
two reasons: "Quadbuster" and the heat. Attempting to avoid either giving me
too much trouble, I woke early at 4:15 and was able to be one of the first 20
riders out of camp. Shivering in the cold and foggy pre-dawn air, I was
reminded of my stiff legs, stiff after almost 200 miles in two days in the
saddle. For a number of reasons Day Three can be brutal.

---
I also posted a [thread to
Twitter](https://mobile.twitter.com/agentdero/status/1534137811841929216)
for today with more pictures

---


Last night I was considering a tweet I had posted a week ago. My fundraising
had stalled at 11k and I wanted to raise a little more in the last week before
ride out. With my training this year, I figured I could do Quadbuster multiple
times, I suggested that I would do it up to five times.

I did not expect my friend Harley to come through with rallying a *lot* of
last-minute fundraising on my behalf, which bumped me up to over **17k**.

I pondered whether Harley's fundraising meant that I should or should not keep
to my original solicitation.

I remember Quadbuster being brutal during my first year, and the subsequent
heat of the day making the day just awful. I decided to try it at least two
times and see how it would feel.

---

I ended up doing Quadbuster **five times**, adding 13 miles and a bit over a
thousand feet of elevation gain.

The climbs weren't that bad, but the last climb I started to feel just like I
did in 2019, it was **tough**. Yes I committed myself to it, but I realy ended
up doing the climbing for me. Quadbuster was so intimidating to me, I was
genuinely concerned about the climb. I wanted to _conquer_ Quadbuster for me.

With the climbing complete, I screamed down the other side and cranked along to
Rest Stop Two where I ran into my team mates Jens and Ulf. They laughed at my
self-inflicted challenge and told me I shouldn't be such a cheap prostitute and
next time require $1k per trip up Quadbuster. We rode out of Rest Stop Two
together and after a while together I pushed on ahead. The cool breeze was
getting warm and the heat of the day swiftly approached.

Rest Stop Three was uneventful, I lathered up in sunscreen and rolled out into
the heat.

The special thing about Day Three is that we stop in Bradley where the local
school works with ALC to do a fundraiser for the students. They offer a veggie
burger option which pairs nicely with shady spot against a wall. I chatted with some
folks from Team Colorado, where I inquired as to how well fundraising out of
state goes. Eventually my lunch had all disappeared and I had to lumber back to
a standing position before trundling off into the ever rising temperatures.

The stretch between Bradley and Rest Stop Four traverses a military base which
is _interesting_ but the US Army has definitely not optimized their roads for
bicycle use. The bouncing around and gravel made me concerned about getting a
flat, so I spent much of the stretch thinking about whether you can actually
stop to change your tire on the base. My question was answered when I saw a guy
changing a tire underneath a tree, with a small white base security car and a
man in camouflage looking on.

I never skip a Rest Stop so I rolled into Rest Stop FOur for some ice, fluids,
and pictures with the Spice Girls. The first time around I sat at Rest Stop
Four for what felt like a half hour feeling like a shit sandwich cooking in the
sun. This time around I still felt like I was cooking in the sun, but had a bit
more confidence that I was going to swiftly make it back into camp. From Rest
Stop Four there are pleasant rollers, light tailwinds, and some nice scenery.

Much of the scenery went unnoticed in 2019, this time around however I can
really enjoy the sights much more as I hammer down the road.

Closing in on Paso Robles I ran into my tent mate
[Kohsuke](https://twitter.com/kohsukekawa) and we were able to finish together.
Despite the extra climbing, heat, and general leg stiffness, I proudly arrived
into camp as the 168th cyclist.

