---
layout: post
title: "Rode hard and put away wet: AIDS/LifeCycle Day One"
tags:
- alc
- alc2022
- cycling
---

This is my second year of [AIDS/LifeCycle](https://aidslifecycle.org) and
the differences are incredible. The ride is different, and **I** am also a very
different rider. I have put down over 2,500 training miles. I am riding a
lighter aluminum tube bike, which replaced the bike I broke on ALC 2019. I am
one of three representing Team Germany, Jens and Ulf flying all the way from
Berlin to raise money and support the community in California. Today was day
_one_, 81 miles from the Cow Palace in San Francisco to Santa Cruz. Today was
**incredible**.

---
I also posted a [thread to
Twitter](https://mobile.twitter.com/agentdero/status/1533401290973147137) for
today with more pictures.
---

June in California is typically dry and hot, _typically_. The hoard of cyclists
departing the Cow Palace this morning were greeted with an atypical day: it
rained practically the **entire** ride to Santa Cruz.

Ride out is always slow and stressful, add slick and bumpy San Francisco city
streets into the mix and my focus was largely on staying safe. Ride safe, be
safe. Jens, Ulf, and I spent a few miles chatting and meeting Jens' adoring
fans. The electrolytes I had in Cow Palace got the better of me and I increased
pace so I could find a bathroom sooner rather than later.

I had also left Cow Palace with empty water bottles, so I pulled into the water
station ahead of Rest Stop One and got myself situated on both fronts.

Departing the water station I reminded myself of the rules I developed during
2019:

* Whenever you see somebody drink, you drink.
* When you see the "1 mile to go" sign for a rest stop, drain your water bottle.
* Do not pass a rest stop.
* Do not leave a rest stop until you have gone to the bathroom.
* Eat at every stop!

As the pack opened up departing San Francisco, I found myself passing people
with some frequency, especially on climbs. I do a **lot** of climb training
around Santa Rosa which is flanked by fabulous mountains to the east and west.
At Rest Stop One I started to realize the benefits of being fast: unused
toilets, fresh drinks, and plenty of snacks.

My feet were soaked, my front was soaked, my butt was soaked. My thinking
shifted towards getting to Santa Cruz, or dry weather, as quickly as possible.

The rules of ALC prohibit drafting, which is an important part of the overall
safety program. The headwinds that started to push against us as we made our
way towards Half Moon Bay really made me resent the rule however. By the time I
got into Rest Stop Two I was feeling warmed up, very comfortable, and pleased
with my progress. I could not stop for long unfortunately, after about 5
minutes I would start to shiver.

I ended up not being able to stop for more than 5-10 minutes the rest of the
day, not even at lunch, as the wet weather, wind, and generally miserable
conditions made me shake uncontrollably. Leaving lunch was an immediate climb,
at the top of which I was warm again, thank goodness!

Cranking along the coast any other year cyclists are greeted with spectacular
ocean views along Route 1, this year it was _soup_. I pushed further, passing
more cyclists along the way. There is _always_ somebody up ahead triggering me
to ride a little faster and focus a little more on my pedal strokes;
AIDS/LifeCYcle is a _ride_ not a _race_ but that doesn't keep my competitive
monkey-brain from pushing me along.

As I arrived into Rest Stop Three, there were five other cyclists in the rack.
A **stark** difference from 2019 where I felt like i was in traffic the entire
ride down to Santa Cruz. I took a picture in front of a big rainbow display
against the side of the Roadies' truck. "Baby Got Back" started to play over
their sound system, a little dancing helped stave off the shivers, but I had to
keep on trucking.

Somewhere between Rest Stop Three and Four, I got a flat tire! Angry and
shivering, gloves and hands wet, I fought the tire off my rear rim and started
the process of clearing the tire of obstructions. A tall gentleman rode up and
stopped "I'm okay!" He replied "I can see that, I thought I would just be your
thumb." Michael stood there to give passing riders and ALC cars the thumbs up
since we had the situation under control. Making conversation in between the
shivers, I learned that he's done the ride for **twenty one years**! I used up
a whole CO2 cartridge, and we rode off.

Unfortunately I lost Michael on a climb, and didn't see him at Rest Stop Four.
When I arrived they hadn't even set up Bike Parking yet. I knew I was hauling
ass, but that surprised me. I visited the Bike Mechanic to buy a new tube, new
cartridges, and make sure I did really clear the tire of whatever punctured the
tube.

76 miles down. Camp was close.

The last few miles bring us into Santa Cruz city limits where there are a lot
more cars and a meandering course that brought me and a fellow cyclist finally
to the park where Day One Camp was busily being constructed. As we dismounted a
Roadie kindly told me that I was the 23rd cyclist to arrive at camp.


I am **so** proud of that. Day One is the only day when we all depart together,
and while everybody stays at rest stops and lunch for different durations, I
don't feel like I unnecessarily pushed myself.

My baseline speed is faster, my handling skills are better, my flat repair
ability is superb!

After Bike Parking, I grabbed gear, setup the tent and _finally_ got a warm
shower and dry clothes.


81 of 545 miles, through the driving rain, blistering headwinds, with a few
thousand of my closest friends. What a great start to ALC 2022!
