---
layout: post
title: "AIDS/LifeCycle 2023 is a go!"
tags:
- cycling
- alc
- alc2023
---

I am really excited to be officially **in** for [AIDS/LifeCycle
2023](https://giving.aidslifecycle.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=donorDrive.participant&participantID=2304)!
This will by my third year supporting the life-saving services offered by San
Francisco AIDS Foundation and the Los Angeles LGBT Center by riding from SF to
LA with AIDS/LifeCycle.. This past 12 months has been among the most stressful
and rewarding in my adult life, so I'm _doubly_ excited to have the support of
so many friends and fmaily. In the next month I'll continue fundraising to try
to meet my goal, and would appreciate your help too!

**[Please donate
now!](https://giving.aidslifecycle.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=donorDrive.participant&participantID=2304)**

I originally started riding with a friend of mine impacted by HIV and have
since come to appreciate the importance of our fundraising to support:
counseling, HIV/STD screenings, linking youth experiencing homelessness and
people living with HIV to housing, and so much more.

Riding with AIDS/LifeCycle has rekindled my love of cycling and since I began
training again in 2021, I _haven't stopped_. Riding with purpose has done
wonders for my mental and physical health. Like the thousands of people
our fundraising supports, I can also credit AIDS/LifeCycle for helping me live
a happier and fuller life.

As in years past I will try to share as much of the ride as I can on my blog.
You can read about last year with [the alc2022 tag](/tag/alc2022.html). You can
also follow my training [on Strava](https://www.strava.com/athletes/91218993)!

On behalf of all the people AIDS/LifeCycle helps I want to thank you all for
your continued support this year!

