---
layout: post
title: "I think coding interviews categorically suck"
tags:
- software
- leadership
- management
- opinion
---

I recently had a good discussion with another engineering leader about the
merits of coding interviews. They have long been a trusted part of the tech
company interview process, but I have been mostly hiring _without_ them over
the last 5 years. Below I wanted to share some of the thoughts that I sent my
colleague:

---

(_in response to a concern about hiring somebody that can't actually build software_)

I have also made one or two hires who didn't end up being able to really build
and implement things. No interview process is going to be 100%, sometimes a dud
gets through. :)

Many coding interviews necessarily need to fit in the time allotted and
therefore are merely puzzles or computer science questions. The internet is
littered with tools on how to practice your way into passing a coding
interview, in fact, I have even seen a book or two at my library on the
subject. For the most part, a coding interview tells you how well somebody can
pass a coding interview, it doesn't actually tell you that they can build
software. [SOME VENDOR] claims to alleviate some of that, but software
development is a team sport and there's a lot _around_ the programming that is
expected of software engineers, especially more senior ones.

My second main concern is that it has always come across to me as almost
disrespectful of people's time. FAANG companies are awful about this. Many
interview processes are already requesting substantial time commitment from
people, and to see companies then ask people to do a "take home assignment" or
a test boggles the mind. [Automatic](https://artiss.blog/2019/03/the-automattic-hiring-process/) does an interesting twist on this in that
they basically pay people up front and take them on in a contracting capacity
before hiring.

As a hiring manager, my objective is to determine whether somebody can build
software. I will typically try to find a way without some form of coding
exercise that's tailored to each candidate, for example:

* If they're on GitHub and have activity, I'll look at open source  
  contributions. In some cases that's sufficient, because I can see how they  
  respond to code review, interact with others, and structure their code in a  
  real world scenario (commit messages too!). I enjoy discussing pull request
  reviews with these candidates too.

* If they don't have public activity, I will look at their resume for items  
  which mention "design and implementation" and then we'll do more of a "code  
  architecture" interview where I discuss that system with them and ask  
  questions about how they structure their code, create modules, test, etc.

* If they are simply too junior or for whatever reason they don't have anything
  above, then what I'll do is a "debugging interview" rather than a coding  
  interview. Where we start with something pre-existing and debug it to make it
  work, refactoring along the way. In these interviews I'm typically using a
  bit of our production code, rather than something that's contrived.

---

Interviewing is _hard_ and imprecise to say the least. Writing code is an
important part of a software engineering role, but we rarely do it as
performance art, making the coding interview an awkward and flawed means of
assessing skill.


An HR leader I once worked with told my team and I to "find reasons to hire
[the candidate]" rather than finding reasons they weren't good enough. That
dramatically changed my approach to hiring. Coding interviews, like any "tests"
during the interview process are finding reasons to bounce the candidate from
the funnel. By taking a more personalized approach to each candidate, I believe
an organization can still make really strong hires with a more respectful and
collaborative interview process that results in better outcomes for everybody
involved.
