---
layout: post
title: "Why aren't my pptdevs ready?"
tags:
- freebsd
- bhyve
---

Whenever a system comes offline I try to always make multiple updates at once.
When I recently received some new mounting hardware for one of my big FreeBSD
servers, I decided to plonk an idle PCI-e device into the chassis while it was
out of the rack.

The FreeBSD machine doesn't have any use for the PCI-e device but I _might_ be
able to make use of the device from a [bhyve](https://bhyve.org) virtual
machine. bhyve supports [pci
passthrough](https://wiki.freebsd.org/bhyve/pci_passthru) but I have not
actually _used_ it in my many years of FreeBSD virtualization.

Executing `vm passthru` lists out all the devices and whether they're ready for
use, and suffice it to say even after my first crack at things, my PCI device
was _not ready!_

The device must be "hidden" from the host in order for guests to acquire/use
the device which means a `pptdevs` entry in `/boot/loader.conf`. The
configuration syntax has an _antique_ feel to it, so I re-read my `loader.conf`
numerous times, tried a couple reboots, and then went off searching the
internet.

I spotted a one-off comment on a semi-related GitHub issue stating:

> Make sure `vmm_load="YES"` is in the `loader.conf`


I have been running bhyve for a while, with `vm_enable="YES"` and assorted
settings in `/etc/rc.conf`...but I didn't have anything associated in the
`loader.conf`! For those unfamiliar, `loader.conf` is like your `grub.conf`
which has the kernel configuration and early boot time parameters, whereas
`rc.conf` is utilized at a much later stage of the boot process.

I posit that my `pptdevs` entry in `loader.conf` was not working because I was
relying on `rc.conf` to dynamically load the necessary bhyve kernel modules,
but by that point in the boot process it is just too late to configure PCI
passthrough devices!


A deep breath and one more reboot, and tada! The machine now is passing a PCI-e
card up to a Linux virtual machine which sees it as a native device!


There's no telling what kind of mischief this will lead to!
